proposals/336/PROPOSALS.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

---
Author: Julien Le Dem
Created: November 3rd
Issue: https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/issues/336
---

# Purpose

Define a design review for proposals that warant more discussion and design than fits in an issue description

# Implementation

- Proposal design documents live under https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/tree/main/proposals
- one folder per design (includes images and the proposal document)
- the proposal is keyed by the github issue id: "/proposals/{github issue id}/{short description}.md"
- each doc has a header with:
 - Author: name of the main author (or authors)
 - Created: the date this was created
 - Issue: the issue tracking this design

# lifecycle:
 
- open an issue using the PROPOSAL template.
- if the discussion warrants it and the general direction is aligned with the project, create a design doc in the /proposals folder by submitting a Pull Request.
- the community can voice it's support in the issue or provide feedback on the PR.
- The PR should be assigned to at least one committer for review.
- once the PR is approved, the design is approved (and in the main branch). It can be prioritized for implementation.
- [a] separate[s] ticket[s] can be created for the implementation (attaching them to a milestone allows tracking progress of the implementation)

Commit message:

update SPDX license headers in source code (#1468)
* update spdx headers in java client

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in python client

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in airflow integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in common integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in dagster integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in dbt integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in flink integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in spark integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in sql integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add spdx footers to proposals

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in proxy

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add spdx footers to md files in spec

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in docs in root

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in misc files

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add missing spdx footer and template in .github

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* remove license footers from md files

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

proposals/336/PROPOSALS.md, after:

---
Author: Julien Le Dem
Created: November 3rd
Issue: https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/issues/336
---

# Purpose

Define a design review for proposals that warant more discussion and design than fits in an issue description

# Implementation

- Proposal design documents live under https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/tree/main/proposals
- one folder per design (includes images and the proposal document)
- the proposal is keyed by the github issue id: "/proposals/{github issue id}/{short description}.md"
- each doc has a header with:
 - Author: name of the main author (or authors)
 - Created: the date this was created
 - Issue: the issue tracking this design

# lifecycle:
 
- open an issue using the PROPOSAL template.
- if the discussion warrants it and the general direction is aligned with the project, create a design doc in the /proposals folder by submitting a Pull Request.
- the community can voice it's support in the issue or provide feedback on the PR.
- The PR should be assigned to at least one committer for review.
- once the PR is approved, the design is approved (and in the main branch). It can be prioritized for implementation.
- [a] separate[s] ticket[s] can be created for the implementation (attaching them to a milestone allows tracking progress of the implementation)

----
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0\
Copyright 2018-2023 contributors to the OpenLineage project
