proposals/148/column_level_lineage.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

---
Status: IN PROGRESS  
Author: Julien Le Dem (original issue) / Pawel Leszczynski (this document)  
Created: 2022-04-01  
Issue: [148](https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/issues/148)
---

## Purpose

Column level lineage provides fine grained information on datasets' dependencies. Not only we know the dependency exist, but we are also able to understand which input columns are used to produce output columns. This allows answering questions like ‘which root input columns are used to construct column x?’. This document describes an idea how to capture this information in the OpenLineage model.

## Proposed implementation

We propose to introduce a new dataset facet `columnLineage`. For each output, this will contain list of output's fields with input fields used to evaluate it. The input fields are identified by: namespace, name and field.

```json
{
   "eventType": "COMPLETE",
   "eventTime": "2020-12-28T20:52:00.001+10:00",
   "run" : {
     "runId": "uuid"
   },
  "job": {
     "namespace": "scheduler",
     "name": "myjob",
     "facets": {
        "sql": {
            "query": "Insert into outputTable from select * from inputTable"
        }
     }
   },
   "inputs": [
     { 
       "namespace": "N1",
       "name": "inputTable",
       "facets": {
        "schema": {
           "fields": [ {"name": "col_a", "type": "VARCHAR"},  {"name": "col_b", "type": "int"}]
         }
       }
    }
   ],
   "outputs": [
     { 
       "namespace": "N2",
       "name": "outputTable",
       "facets": {
        "schema": {
           "fields": [ {"name": "col_a", "type": "VARCHAR"}, {"name": "col_b", "type": "int"} ]
         },
         "columnLineage": {
           "fields": {
             "col_a": {
               "inputFields": [ { "namespace": "N1", "name": "inputTable", "field": "col_a"} ]
             },
             "col_b": {
               "inputFields": [ { "namespace": "N1", "name": "inputTable", "field": "col_b"} ]
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   ]
}
```

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",
  "$id": "https://openlineage.io/spec/facets/1-0-0/ColumnLineageDatasetFacet.json",
  "$defs": {
    "ColumnLineageDatasetFacet": {
      "allOf": [{
        "$ref": "https://openlineage.io/spec/1-0-2/OpenLineage.json#/$defs/DatasetFacet"
      }, {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "fields": {
            "description": "Column level lineage that maps output fields into input fields used to evaluate them.",
            "type": "object",
            "additionalProperties": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                "inputFields": {
                  "type": "array",
                  "items": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "properties": {
                      "namespace": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "description": "The input dataset namespace"
                      },
                      "name": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "description": "The input dataset name"
                      },
                      "field": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "description": "The input field"
                      }
                    },
                    "required": [
                      "namespace", "name", "field"
                    ]
                  }
                }
              },
              "required": ["inputFields"]
            }      
          }    
        },
        "additionalProperties": true,
        "required": [
          "fields"
        ]
      }],
      "type": "object"
    }
  },
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "columnLineage": {
      "$ref": "#/$defs/ColumnLineageDatasetFacet"
    }
  }
}
```


## Spark Implementation

We will use OpenLineage Spark integration to test `columnLineage` in action. 

OpenLineage & Spark integration relies on implementing visitors that traverse Spark LogicalPlan and extract meaningful information when encountered. We do already identify the outputs and the inputs with their schemas. Attributes within LogicalPlan's nodes contain `ExprId` which define the dependencies between attributes of adjacent nodes. Traversing whole `LogicalPlan` allows capturing all the dependencies required to build column level lineage.

Commit message:

update SPDX license headers in source code (#1468)
* update spdx headers in java client

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in python client

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in airflow integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in common integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in dagster integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in dbt integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in flink integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in spark integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in sql integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add spdx footers to proposals

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in proxy

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add spdx footers to md files in spec

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in docs in root

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in misc files

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add missing spdx footer and template in .github

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* remove license footers from md files

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

proposals/148/column_level_lineage.md, after:

---
Status: IN PROGRESS  
Author: Julien Le Dem (original issue) / Pawel Leszczynski (this document)  
Created: 2022-04-01  
Issue: [148](https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/issues/148)
---

## Purpose

Column level lineage provides fine grained information on datasets' dependencies. Not only we know the dependency exist, but we are also able to understand which input columns are used to produce output columns. This allows answering questions like ‘which root input columns are used to construct column x?’. This document describes an idea how to capture this information in the OpenLineage model.

## Proposed implementation

We propose to introduce a new dataset facet `columnLineage`. For each output, this will contain list of output's fields with input fields used to evaluate it. The input fields are identified by: namespace, name and field.

```json
{
   "eventType": "COMPLETE",
   "eventTime": "2020-12-28T20:52:00.001+10:00",
   "run" : {
     "runId": "uuid"
   },
  "job": {
     "namespace": "scheduler",
     "name": "myjob",
     "facets": {
        "sql": {
            "query": "Insert into outputTable from select * from inputTable"
        }
     }
   },
   "inputs": [
     { 
       "namespace": "N1",
       "name": "inputTable",
       "facets": {
        "schema": {
           "fields": [ {"name": "col_a", "type": "VARCHAR"},  {"name": "col_b", "type": "int"}]
         }
       }
    }
   ],
   "outputs": [
     { 
       "namespace": "N2",
       "name": "outputTable",
       "facets": {
        "schema": {
           "fields": [ {"name": "col_a", "type": "VARCHAR"}, {"name": "col_b", "type": "int"} ]
         },
         "columnLineage": {
           "fields": {
             "col_a": {
               "inputFields": [ { "namespace": "N1", "name": "inputTable", "field": "col_a"} ]
             },
             "col_b": {
               "inputFields": [ { "namespace": "N1", "name": "inputTable", "field": "col_b"} ]
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   ]
}
```

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",
  "$id": "https://openlineage.io/spec/facets/1-0-0/ColumnLineageDatasetFacet.json",
  "$defs": {
    "ColumnLineageDatasetFacet": {
      "allOf": [{
        "$ref": "https://openlineage.io/spec/1-0-2/OpenLineage.json#/$defs/DatasetFacet"
      }, {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "fields": {
            "description": "Column level lineage that maps output fields into input fields used to evaluate them.",
            "type": "object",
            "additionalProperties": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                "inputFields": {
                  "type": "array",
                  "items": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "properties": {
                      "namespace": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "description": "The input dataset namespace"
                      },
                      "name": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "description": "The input dataset name"
                      },
                      "field": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "description": "The input field"
                      }
                    },
                    "required": [
                      "namespace", "name", "field"
                    ]
                  }
                }
              },
              "required": ["inputFields"]
            }      
          }    
        },
        "additionalProperties": true,
        "required": [
          "fields"
        ]
      }],
      "type": "object"
    }
  },
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "columnLineage": {
      "$ref": "#/$defs/ColumnLineageDatasetFacet"
    }
  }
}
```


## Spark Implementation

We will use OpenLineage Spark integration to test `columnLineage` in action. 

OpenLineage & Spark integration relies on implementing visitors that traverse Spark LogicalPlan and extract meaningful information when encountered. We do already identify the outputs and the inputs with their schemas. Attributes within LogicalPlan's nodes contain `ExprId` which define the dependencies between attributes of adjacent nodes. Traversing whole `LogicalPlan` allows capturing all the dependencies required to build column level lineage.

----
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0\
Copyright 2018-2023 contributors to the OpenLineage project
