spec/facets/ColumnLineageDatasetFacet.md, before:

# Column level lineage

The [column level lineage facet](ColumnLineageDatasetFacet.json) captures the lineage of columns of an output dataset from the columns in input datasets.
It must refer to existing columns as defined in the [`schema` facet](SchemaDatasetFacet.json).
Output Dataset example of adding a columnLineage facet:
```diff
    {
      "namespace": "{namespace of the outputdataset}",
      "name": "{name of the output dataset}",
      "facets": {
        "schema": {
          "fields": [
            { "name": "{first column of the output dataset}", "type": "{its type}"},
            { "name": "{second column of the output dataset}", "type": "{its type}"},
            ...
          ]
        },
>       "columnLineage": {
>         "{first column of the output dataset}": {
>           "inputFields": [
>             { "namespace": "{input dataset namespace}", name: "{input dataset name}", "field": "{input dataset column name}"},
>             ... other inputs
>           ],
>           "transformationDescription": "identical",
>           "transformationType": "IDENTITY"
>         },
>         "{second column of the output dataset}": ...,
>         ...
>       }
      }
    }
```
Full lineage event example:
```
{
  "eventType": "START",
  "eventTime": "2020-12-09T23:37:31.081Z",
  "run": {
    "runId": "3b452093-782c-4ef2-9c0c-aafe2aa6f34d",
  },
  "job": {
    "namespace": "my-scheduler-namespace",
    "name": "myjob.mytask",
  },
  "inputs": [
    {
      "namespace": "my-datasource-namespace",
      "name": "instance.schema.table",
      "facets": {
        "schema": {
          "fields": [
            { "name": "ia", "type": "INT"}, 
            { "name": "ib", "type": "INT"}
          ]
        },
      }
    }
  ],
  "outputs": [
    {
      "namespace": "my-datasource-namespace",
      "name": "instance.schema.output_table",
      "facets": {
        "schema": {
          "fields": [
            { "name": "a", "type": "INT"}, 
            { "name": "b", "type": "INT"}
          ]
        },
        "columnLineage": {
          "a": {
            "inputFields": [
              {namespace: "my-datasource-namespace", name: "instance.schema.table", "field": "ia"},
              ... other inputs
            ],
            transformationDescription: "identical",
            transformationType: "IDENTITY"
          },
          "b": ... other output fields
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "schemaURL": "https://openlineage.io/spec/1-0-0/OpenLineage.json#/definitions/RunEvent"
}
```

Commit message:

adding additional fields description
Signed-off-by: Julien Le Dem <julien@apache.org>

spec/facets/ColumnLineageDatasetFacet.md, after:

# Column level lineage

The [column level lineage facet](ColumnLineageDatasetFacet.json) captures the lineage of columns of an output dataset from the columns in input datasets.
It must refer to existing columns as defined in the [`schema` facet](SchemaDatasetFacet.json).
Additional information on the transformation from the input columns to the output column is stored in the optional *transformationDescription* and *transformationType* fields.
 - *transformationDescription*: a human readable description of the transformation. ex: "(a+b)" or "identical"
 - *transformationType*: type of the transformation. possible values:
  - "IDENTITY" exactly the same as the input.
  - "MASKED" for example a hash of the input value that doesn't expose the original value.

Output Dataset example of adding a columnLineage facet:
```diff
    {
      "namespace": "{namespace of the outputdataset}",
      "name": "{name of the output dataset}",
      "facets": {
        "schema": {
          "fields": [
            { "name": "{first column of the output dataset}", "type": "{its type}"},
            { "name": "{second column of the output dataset}", "type": "{its type}"},
            ...
          ]
        },
>       "columnLineage": {
>         "{first column of the output dataset}": {
>           "inputFields": [
>             { "namespace": "{input dataset namespace}", name: "{input dataset name}", "field": "{input dataset column name}"},
>             ... other inputs
>           ],
>           "transformationDescription": "identical",
>           "transformationType": "IDENTITY"
>         },
>         "{second column of the output dataset}": ...,
>         ...
>       }
      }
    }
```
Full lineage event example:
```
{
  "eventType": "START",
  "eventTime": "2020-12-09T23:37:31.081Z",
  "run": {
    "runId": "3b452093-782c-4ef2-9c0c-aafe2aa6f34d",
  },
  "job": {
    "namespace": "my-scheduler-namespace",
    "name": "myjob.mytask",
  },
  "inputs": [
    {
      "namespace": "my-datasource-namespace",
      "name": "instance.schema.table",
      "facets": {
        "schema": {
          "fields": [
            { "name": "ia", "type": "INT"}, 
            { "name": "ib", "type": "INT"}
          ]
        },
      }
    }
  ],
  "outputs": [
    {
      "namespace": "my-datasource-namespace",
      "name": "instance.schema.output_table",
      "facets": {
        "schema": {
          "fields": [
            { "name": "a", "type": "INT"}, 
            { "name": "b", "type": "INT"}
          ]
        },
        "columnLineage": {
          "a": {
            "inputFields": [
              {namespace: "my-datasource-namespace", name: "instance.schema.table", "field": "ia"},
              ... other inputs
            ],
            transformationDescription: "identical",
            transformationType: "IDENTITY"
          },
          "b": ... other output fields
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "schemaURL": "https://openlineage.io/spec/1-0-0/OpenLineage.json#/definitions/RunEvent"
}
```
