proposals/168/making_spark_visitors_extensible.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

---
Author: Michael Collado
Created: December 14
Issue: https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/issues/168
---

# Purpose
Users need to write custom extensions to the Spark OpenLineage library in order to support custom datasources, add
custom job facets, and to augment events with application-specific logic. Currently, all of the logic for reporting
OpenLineage events is contained in the `io.openlineage.spark.agent.lifecycle` package of the java library. This proposal
allows for scanning the classpath to find custom implementations of event handlers that can publish OpenLineage 
components based on application events.

# Implementation

Most of the code that publishes OpenLineage information from Spark applications uses Spark SQL's `LogicalPlan` to 
locate and extract dataset and job information, such as the location of a dataset in GCS or the name and schema of a
table in Hive or a relational database. Implementations subclass an abstract class called `QueryPlanVisitor`, which 
is a `PartialFunction` that can convert specific implementations of `LogicalPlan` into `OpenLineage.Dataset`s. 
However, some information necessary to construct a complete OpenLineage event is not found in the `LogicalPlan`. Simple
examples include the number of records and bytes read and/or written during execution. That information is found in the
`TaskMetrics` object bound to a `StageInfo` reported at the time of a `SparkListenerStageCompleted` event. Some 
information, such as the `HadoopRDD` being processed is found in the `RDD` bound to a `Stage` (not a `StageInfo`).
Thus, adding support for customer `QueryPlanVisitor`s will not allow full customization for users who are interested in
publishing custom dataset or job/run facets. 

To allow full customization, we can introduce the following interfaces
```java
/**
 * Interface for custom facet builders. `isDefinedAt` determines the type of event supported by the 
 */
public interface CustomFacetBuilder<T, F> {

    /**
     * @param event
     * @return true if this function is defined for the argument
     */
    boolean isDefinedAt(T event);

    /**
     * Handle the given event, writing any resulting facets to the {@link java.util.function.BiConsumer}, which accepts
     * the name of the facet and the facet itself.
     */
    void accept(T event, BiConsumer<String, ? super F> consumer);

}

/**
 * Factory for the builders that generate OpenLineage components and facets from Spark events.
 */
public interface OpenLineageEventListenerFactory {

    /**
     * @return a collection of {@link io.openlineage.spark.api.QueryPlanVisitor}s that can construct `InputDataset`s.
     */
    default Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> createInputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> createOutputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<PartialFunction<Object, List<OpenLineage.InputDatasetBuilder>>> createInputDatasetBuilder(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return PartialFunction.empty();
    }

    default Collection<PartialFunction<Object, List<OpenLineage.InputDatasetBuilder>>> createOutputDatasetBuilder(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.InputDatasetFacet>> createInputDatasetFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.OutputDatasetFacet>> createOutputDatasetFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.DatasetFacet>> createDatasetFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.RunFacet>> createRunFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.JobFacet>> createJobFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

}
```

The `OpenLineageEventListenerFactory` interface will be implemented by users and will return `Collection`s of facet 
builders and dataset builders. `Collection` implies that any ordering of the returned collections is not guaranteed nor
should any predictable iteration order be expected. 

Users will supply their `OpenLineageEventListenerFactory` implementation by following the conventions outlined in the
`java.util.ServiceLoader` documentation - a file named `META-INF/services/io.openlineage.spark.api.OpenLineageEventListenerFactory`
must be included in a jar on the classpath. Each line in the file will contain the fully qualified name of an 
implementing class.

Implementing services must have a zero-arg constructor, which is invoked by the `java.util.ServiceLoader.Provider`.
Some builders will need access to the `SparkContext` or to be able to delegate to other builders (e.g., the
`SaveIntoDataSourceCommandVisitor` unwraps the `LogicalRelation` from the `dataSource` field, then delegates to an
implementation that knows how to handle the specific `LogicalRelation` returned). For this purpose, we'll also introduce
an `OpenLineageContext` class, defined as

```java
@Value
public class OpenLineageContext {
    Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> inputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors;
    Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> outputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors;
    SparkContext sparkContext;
    Optional<SparkSession> sparksession;
    Optional<QueryExecution> queryExecution;
}
```

In addition to delegate builders, the `OpenLineageContext` gives factories access to the running 
`SparkContext`, optional `SparkSession` (when running in a Spark SQL setting), and optional 
`QueryExecution` (when the running Spark job is a query execution). This enables custom facets to
generate application and run-level facets, which are currently hard-coded in the 
`SparkSQLExecutionContext`, such as the serialized logical plan or the current Spark version.  

Each of the `createX` methods will be called exactly once during a detected Spark job run (that is,
once per `QueryExecution` for Spark SQL queries, once per `ActiveJob` for RDD jobs). There's no
guarantee regarding the order in which the `create` methods will be called. Thus, the constructed
builders should make no assumptions about the state of the `OpenLineageContext` when the `create`
method is called. E.g., the `inputDatasetFacetBuilders` should not assume that all of
the `inputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors` have been instantiated or that the `Collection` returned by the
getter has been fully populated. Builders that need to depend on the ability to delegate to other
builders should store a reference to the `OpenLineageContext` and call the appropriate getter at the
time the delegate is actually needed.

The builders returned are all some form of `PartialFunction` - they must all define an `isDefinedAt(T event)` method
which determines the type of argument the builder can respond to. The `createInputDatasetBuilder` and 
`createOutputDatasetBuilder` methods return `PartialFunction`s that construct either an `InputDataset` or an
`OutputDataset`, respectively. (Builders are not returned because the Builder classes have no getters
and they also lack the Jackson annotations present directly on the immutable model objects, so don't
work well for merging multiple facets from different sources into the same target dataset, which may 
already have facets defined).

For each `SparkListener` event, an `OpenLineage.RunEvent` will be constructed by 
1. Construct `RunFacet`s by invoking each of the `runFacetBuilders`
2. Construct `JobFacet`s by invoking each of the `jobFacetBuilders`
3. Construct `InputDatasetBuilder`s by invoking each of the `inputDatasetBuilder`s.
4. _If_ any `InputDatasetBuilder`s are returned, invoke the `inputDatasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to
   the `InputDataset`s
5. _If_ any `InputDataset`s are returned, invoke the `datasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to 
    the `InputDataset`s
6. Construct `OutputDataset`s by invoking each of the `outputDatasetBuilder`s.
7. _If_ any `OuptutDataset`s are returned, invoke the `outputDatasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to
   the `OutputDataset`s
5. _If_ any `OutputDataset`s are returned, invoke the `datasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to
   the `OutputDataset`s

`InputDatasetFacet`s and `OutputDatasetFacet`s will be attached to _any_ `InputDataset` or `OutputDataset`
found for the event. This is because facets may be constructed from generic information that is not specifi**cally tied
to a Dataset. For example, `OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet`s are created from `TaskMetrics` attached to** the last
`StageInfo` for a given job execution. However, the `OutputDataset` is constructed by reading the `LogicalPlan`. There's
no way to tie the output metrics in the `StageInfo` to the `OutputDataset` in the `LogicalPlan` except by inference.
Similarly, input metrics can be found in the `StageInfo` for the stage that reads a dataset and the `InputDataset` can
usually be constructed by walking the `RDD` dependency tree for that `Stage` and finding a `FileScanRDD` or other 
concrete implementation. But while there is typically only one `InputDataset` read in a given stage, there's no 
guarantee of that and the `TaskMetrics` in the `StageInfo` won't disambiguate. If a facet needs to be attached to a
specific dataset, the user must take care to construct both the Dataset and the Facet in the same builder.

For convenience, the following abstract base classes are defined:

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an InputDataset
public abstract class AbstractInputDatasetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an InputDatasetFacet
public abstract class AbstractInputDatasetFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an OutputDataset
public abstract class AbstractOutputDatasetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an OutputDatasetFacet
public abstract class AbstractOutputDatasetFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns a RunFacet
public abstract class AbstractRunFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns a JobFacet
public abstract class AbstractJobFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

By default, the `isDefinedAt` method is implemented to support a concrete type argument for the T parameter. E.g., a
concrete defined as `MyRDDFacet extends AbstractJobFacetBuilder<RDD>` will be _defined_ for any instance of `RDD`.

Currently, the types that will be passed to builders include
* org.apache.spark.scheduler.StageInfo
* org.apache.spark.scheduler.Stage
* org.apache.spark.scheduler.ActiveJob
* org.apache.spark.sql.execution.QueryExecution
* org.apache.spark.rdd.RDD

`RDD` chains will be _flattened_ so each `RDD` dependency is passed to the builders one at a time. This means a builder
can directly specify the type of `RDD` it handles, such as a `HadoopRDD` or a `FileScanRDD`, without having to check
the dependencies of every `MapPartitionRDD` or `SQLExecutionRDD`.

Some simple examples of builder implementations are
```java
public class FileScanInputDatasetBuilder extends AbstractInputDatasetBuilder<FileScanRDD> {
    private final SparkContext sparkContext;

    public FileScanInputDatasetBuilder(OpenLineage openLineage, SparkContext sparkContext) {
        super(openLineage);
        this.sparkContext = sparkContext;
    }

    @Override
    public List<OpenLineage.InputDataset> apply(FileScanRDD rdd) {
        return ScalaConversionUtils.fromSeq(rdd.filePartitions())
                .stream()
                .flatMap(fp -> Arrays.stream(fp.files()))
                .map(file -> {
                    Path p = new Path(file.filePath());
                    try {
                        if (p.getFileSystem(sparkContext.hadoopConfiguration()).isFile(p)) {
                            return p.getParent();
                        } else {
                            return p;
                        }
                    } catch (IOException e) {
                        throw new RuntimeException(e);
                    }
                }).map(Path::toUri)
                .distinct()
                .map(uri -> PathUtils.fromURI(uri, "file"))
                .map(dsi -> openLineage.newInputDatasetBuilder().namespace(dsi.getNamespace()).name(dsi.getName()).build())
                .collect(Collectors.toList());
    }
}
```

```java
public class OutputStatisticsFacetBuilder implements CustomFacetBuilder<StageInfo, OpenLineage.OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet> {
    private final OpenLineage openLineage;

    public OutputStatisticsFacetBuilder(OpenLineage openLineage) {
        this.openLineage = openLineage;
    }

    @Override
    public void accept(StageInfo event, BiConsumer<String, ? super OpenLineage.OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet> consumer) {
        OpenLineage.OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet statsFacet =
                openLineage.newOutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet(
                        event.taskMetrics().outputMetrics().recordsWritten(),
                        event.taskMetrics().outputMetrics().bytesWritten()
                );
        consumer.accept("outputStatistics", statsFacet);
    }
}
```

Commit message:

update SPDX license headers in source code (#1468)
* update spdx headers in java client

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in python client

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in airflow integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in common integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in dagster integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in dbt integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in flink integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in spark integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in sql integration

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add spdx footers to proposals

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in proxy

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add spdx footers to md files in spec

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in docs in root

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* update spdx headers in misc files

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* add missing spdx footer and template in .github

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

* remove license footers from md files

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

Signed-off-by: Michael Robinson <merobi@gmail.com>

proposals/168/making_spark_visitors_extensible.md, after:

---
Author: Michael Collado
Created: December 14
Issue: https://github.com/OpenLineage/OpenLineage/issues/168
---

# Purpose
Users need to write custom extensions to the Spark OpenLineage library in order to support custom datasources, add
custom job facets, and to augment events with application-specific logic. Currently, all of the logic for reporting
OpenLineage events is contained in the `io.openlineage.spark.agent.lifecycle` package of the java library. This proposal
allows for scanning the classpath to find custom implementations of event handlers that can publish OpenLineage 
components based on application events.

# Implementation

Most of the code that publishes OpenLineage information from Spark applications uses Spark SQL's `LogicalPlan` to 
locate and extract dataset and job information, such as the location of a dataset in GCS or the name and schema of a
table in Hive or a relational database. Implementations subclass an abstract class called `QueryPlanVisitor`, which 
is a `PartialFunction` that can convert specific implementations of `LogicalPlan` into `OpenLineage.Dataset`s. 
However, some information necessary to construct a complete OpenLineage event is not found in the `LogicalPlan`. Simple
examples include the number of records and bytes read and/or written during execution. That information is found in the
`TaskMetrics` object bound to a `StageInfo` reported at the time of a `SparkListenerStageCompleted` event. Some 
information, such as the `HadoopRDD` being processed is found in the `RDD` bound to a `Stage` (not a `StageInfo`).
Thus, adding support for customer `QueryPlanVisitor`s will not allow full customization for users who are interested in
publishing custom dataset or job/run facets. 

To allow full customization, we can introduce the following interfaces
```java
/**
 * Interface for custom facet builders. `isDefinedAt` determines the type of event supported by the 
 */
public interface CustomFacetBuilder<T, F> {

    /**
     * @param event
     * @return true if this function is defined for the argument
     */
    boolean isDefinedAt(T event);

    /**
     * Handle the given event, writing any resulting facets to the {@link java.util.function.BiConsumer}, which accepts
     * the name of the facet and the facet itself.
     */
    void accept(T event, BiConsumer<String, ? super F> consumer);

}

/**
 * Factory for the builders that generate OpenLineage components and facets from Spark events.
 */
public interface OpenLineageEventListenerFactory {

    /**
     * @return a collection of {@link io.openlineage.spark.api.QueryPlanVisitor}s that can construct `InputDataset`s.
     */
    default Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> createInputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> createOutputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<PartialFunction<Object, List<OpenLineage.InputDatasetBuilder>>> createInputDatasetBuilder(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return PartialFunction.empty();
    }

    default Collection<PartialFunction<Object, List<OpenLineage.InputDatasetBuilder>>> createOutputDatasetBuilder(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.InputDatasetFacet>> createInputDatasetFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.OutputDatasetFacet>> createOutputDatasetFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.DatasetFacet>> createDatasetFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.RunFacet>> createRunFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

    default Collection<CustomFacetBuilder<Object, OpenLineage.JobFacet>> createJobFacetBuilders(OpenLineageContext context) {
        return Collections.emptyList();
    }

}
```

The `OpenLineageEventListenerFactory` interface will be implemented by users and will return `Collection`s of facet 
builders and dataset builders. `Collection` implies that any ordering of the returned collections is not guaranteed nor
should any predictable iteration order be expected. 

Users will supply their `OpenLineageEventListenerFactory` implementation by following the conventions outlined in the
`java.util.ServiceLoader` documentation - a file named `META-INF/services/io.openlineage.spark.api.OpenLineageEventListenerFactory`
must be included in a jar on the classpath. Each line in the file will contain the fully qualified name of an 
implementing class.

Implementing services must have a zero-arg constructor, which is invoked by the `java.util.ServiceLoader.Provider`.
Some builders will need access to the `SparkContext` or to be able to delegate to other builders (e.g., the
`SaveIntoDataSourceCommandVisitor` unwraps the `LogicalRelation` from the `dataSource` field, then delegates to an
implementation that knows how to handle the specific `LogicalRelation` returned). For this purpose, we'll also introduce
an `OpenLineageContext` class, defined as

```java
@Value
public class OpenLineageContext {
    Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> inputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors;
    Collection<QueryPlanVisitor<LogicalPlan>> outputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors;
    SparkContext sparkContext;
    Optional<SparkSession> sparksession;
    Optional<QueryExecution> queryExecution;
}
```

In addition to delegate builders, the `OpenLineageContext` gives factories access to the running 
`SparkContext`, optional `SparkSession` (when running in a Spark SQL setting), and optional 
`QueryExecution` (when the running Spark job is a query execution). This enables custom facets to
generate application and run-level facets, which are currently hard-coded in the 
`SparkSQLExecutionContext`, such as the serialized logical plan or the current Spark version.  

Each of the `createX` methods will be called exactly once during a detected Spark job run (that is,
once per `QueryExecution` for Spark SQL queries, once per `ActiveJob` for RDD jobs). There's no
guarantee regarding the order in which the `create` methods will be called. Thus, the constructed
builders should make no assumptions about the state of the `OpenLineageContext` when the `create`
method is called. E.g., the `inputDatasetFacetBuilders` should not assume that all of
the `inputDatasetQueryPlanVisitors` have been instantiated or that the `Collection` returned by the
getter has been fully populated. Builders that need to depend on the ability to delegate to other
builders should store a reference to the `OpenLineageContext` and call the appropriate getter at the
time the delegate is actually needed.

The builders returned are all some form of `PartialFunction` - they must all define an `isDefinedAt(T event)` method
which determines the type of argument the builder can respond to. The `createInputDatasetBuilder` and 
`createOutputDatasetBuilder` methods return `PartialFunction`s that construct either an `InputDataset` or an
`OutputDataset`, respectively. (Builders are not returned because the Builder classes have no getters
and they also lack the Jackson annotations present directly on the immutable model objects, so don't
work well for merging multiple facets from different sources into the same target dataset, which may 
already have facets defined).

For each `SparkListener` event, an `OpenLineage.RunEvent` will be constructed by 
1. Construct `RunFacet`s by invoking each of the `runFacetBuilders`
2. Construct `JobFacet`s by invoking each of the `jobFacetBuilders`
3. Construct `InputDatasetBuilder`s by invoking each of the `inputDatasetBuilder`s.
4. _If_ any `InputDatasetBuilder`s are returned, invoke the `inputDatasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to
   the `InputDataset`s
5. _If_ any `InputDataset`s are returned, invoke the `datasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to 
    the `InputDataset`s
6. Construct `OutputDataset`s by invoking each of the `outputDatasetBuilder`s.
7. _If_ any `OuptutDataset`s are returned, invoke the `outputDatasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to
   the `OutputDataset`s
5. _If_ any `OutputDataset`s are returned, invoke the `datasetFacetBuilder`s and attach any returned facets to
   the `OutputDataset`s

`InputDatasetFacet`s and `OutputDatasetFacet`s will be attached to _any_ `InputDataset` or `OutputDataset`
found for the event. This is because facets may be constructed from generic information that is not specifi**cally tied
to a Dataset. For example, `OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet`s are created from `TaskMetrics` attached to** the last
`StageInfo` for a given job execution. However, the `OutputDataset` is constructed by reading the `LogicalPlan`. There's
no way to tie the output metrics in the `StageInfo` to the `OutputDataset` in the `LogicalPlan` except by inference.
Similarly, input metrics can be found in the `StageInfo` for the stage that reads a dataset and the `InputDataset` can
usually be constructed by walking the `RDD` dependency tree for that `Stage` and finding a `FileScanRDD` or other 
concrete implementation. But while there is typically only one `InputDataset` read in a given stage, there's no 
guarantee of that and the `TaskMetrics` in the `StageInfo` won't disambiguate. If a facet needs to be attached to a
specific dataset, the user must take care to construct both the Dataset and the Facet in the same builder.

For convenience, the following abstract base classes are defined:

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an InputDataset
public abstract class AbstractInputDatasetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an InputDatasetFacet
public abstract class AbstractInputDatasetFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an OutputDataset
public abstract class AbstractOutputDatasetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns an OutputDatasetFacet
public abstract class AbstractOutputDatasetFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns a RunFacet
public abstract class AbstractRunFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

```java
// accepts an argument of type T and returns a JobFacet
public abstract class AbstractJobFacetBuilder<T>{}
```

By default, the `isDefinedAt` method is implemented to support a concrete type argument for the T parameter. E.g., a
concrete defined as `MyRDDFacet extends AbstractJobFacetBuilder<RDD>` will be _defined_ for any instance of `RDD`.

Currently, the types that will be passed to builders include
* org.apache.spark.scheduler.StageInfo
* org.apache.spark.scheduler.Stage
* org.apache.spark.scheduler.ActiveJob
* org.apache.spark.sql.execution.QueryExecution
* org.apache.spark.rdd.RDD

`RDD` chains will be _flattened_ so each `RDD` dependency is passed to the builders one at a time. This means a builder
can directly specify the type of `RDD` it handles, such as a `HadoopRDD` or a `FileScanRDD`, without having to check
the dependencies of every `MapPartitionRDD` or `SQLExecutionRDD`.

Some simple examples of builder implementations are
```java
public class FileScanInputDatasetBuilder extends AbstractInputDatasetBuilder<FileScanRDD> {
    private final SparkContext sparkContext;

    public FileScanInputDatasetBuilder(OpenLineage openLineage, SparkContext sparkContext) {
        super(openLineage);
        this.sparkContext = sparkContext;
    }

    @Override
    public List<OpenLineage.InputDataset> apply(FileScanRDD rdd) {
        return ScalaConversionUtils.fromSeq(rdd.filePartitions())
                .stream()
                .flatMap(fp -> Arrays.stream(fp.files()))
                .map(file -> {
                    Path p = new Path(file.filePath());
                    try {
                        if (p.getFileSystem(sparkContext.hadoopConfiguration()).isFile(p)) {
                            return p.getParent();
                        } else {
                            return p;
                        }
                    } catch (IOException e) {
                        throw new RuntimeException(e);
                    }
                }).map(Path::toUri)
                .distinct()
                .map(uri -> PathUtils.fromURI(uri, "file"))
                .map(dsi -> openLineage.newInputDatasetBuilder().namespace(dsi.getNamespace()).name(dsi.getName()).build())
                .collect(Collectors.toList());
    }
}
```

```java
public class OutputStatisticsFacetBuilder implements CustomFacetBuilder<StageInfo, OpenLineage.OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet> {
    private final OpenLineage openLineage;

    public OutputStatisticsFacetBuilder(OpenLineage openLineage) {
        this.openLineage = openLineage;
    }

    @Override
    public void accept(StageInfo event, BiConsumer<String, ? super OpenLineage.OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet> consumer) {
        OpenLineage.OutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet statsFacet =
                openLineage.newOutputStatisticsOutputDatasetFacet(
                        event.taskMetrics().outputMetrics().recordsWritten(),
                        event.taskMetrics().outputMetrics().bytesWritten()
                );
        consumer.accept("outputStatistics", statsFacet);
    }
}
```

----
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0\
Copyright 2018-2023 contributors to the OpenLineage project
